# Chapter VII. INTENTION

Potential is only limited by intention

## Lucid Dreaming

In this chapter we come closer to solving the Guardian's riddle about the fact that we are free to choose anything we want in life and how to go about it. One of the keys to the riddle lies in what we call dreaming. A person spends a third of their lifetime asleep. Unfortunately, scientific research can only offer us a limited understanding of the human sleep state and so what exactly happens to a person when they are asleep remains a mystery. Philosophical interpretations of dreams are no more enlightening, spanning from one extreme to another. Some say that dreams are an illusion whilst others claim that life itself is nothing more than a dream. Who should we believe? The Transurfing model of the universe supports neither position.

When adults remember their dreams they tell themselves that what they saw was not real. The mind is comforted by the interpretation that dreams are a product of the imagination, somehow generated in a state of rest. We know that children up to the age of four fail to distinguish between what they see in a dreaming and a waking state. They believe that the content of their dreams is happening in the same space as the rest of their life. When a child wakes terrified from a nightmare they are convinced that the monster is still somewhere in the bedroom and nothing their parents can say will comfort them. Gradually, the child's mind begins to accept the idea that dreams are not real.

We discussed previously how the mind quickly and willingly organises any new information that it receives according to abstract references and yet it takes a whole four years to convince the mind that dreams are not real. This must be the only thing that the mind cannot willingly accept. Most people have no memory of their life before the age of four and so as adults they cannot bear witness to the confusion the mind must have experienced upon wakening from a dream when it was still believed to be real.

Every night when the mind switches off it falls innocently into a kind of trap. It does not occur to us to take a critical view of events whilst we are asleep. Even on waking we are surprised by how real and very natural the virtual reality of our dreams appears. The mind is accustomed to finding a rational explanation for everything and so despite the fact that people see quite bizarre events in their dreams, for some reason, in the moment of dreaming the mind responds as if they were quite normal. Whenever we notice or experience something unusual the mind will instantly provide a rational explanation. And despite this we do not question the reality of what is happening in the world around us when we are in a conscious, waking state and the same is true of dreaming. Despite the mind's incessant need to control, the simple question "is this real?" slips through the prism of control and the mind falls into the dream trap.

Sometimes, if we are lucky, something quite miraculous happens and we wake up in a dream, suddenly aware that we are dreaming. Usually this happens when we dream about something extraordinary or have a nightmare. The rational mind is shocked into part waking and we understand what to do next in the dream. At this point the unconscious dream state shifts into lucid dreaming. In lucid dreaming a person can take part in their dream as if it were a virtual game, at the same time understanding that it is just a dream. If you have never experienced lucid dreaming or are reading about it here for the first time, you can be certain that it is not a product of our imagination. Numerous books have been published on the topic and there are many individuals who practice the technique consistently.

It is not difficult to try lucid dreaming because it can be brought on by the power of intention. To 'wake up' in a dream you have to train your mind to ask the question: "Is this real?" It is not that difficult to do if you are motivated. The process of training the mind is quite straightforward but it does require your focused attention. Over the course of a day you need to ask yourself whether what you are seeing is real at least ten times. Your inner Guardian will assist you. Instruct your inner Guardian to keep asking you whether you are asleep. It is important that you answer each time as conscientiously as possible so that the rational mind retains a critical attitude rather than it becoming a routine procedure. Shake yourself a little to increase your alertness, look around, assess the situation and ask yourself whether everything is as usual or whether something strange is happening. If you are persistent enough you will eventually 'wake up' in your dream.

You will probably find that it is quite difficult to remember to ask yourself this question even ten times a day and so you have to be really motivated if you want the technique to work. Depending on the strength of your intention you may begin to experience lucid dreaming within a few days or perhaps a few months.

It can be helpful to use a chiming clock. You can then program your inner Guardian to ask you whether you are asleep or not every time the clock chimes. The sound of the clock will be like a bridge to consciousness. When you are asleep and the clock chimes your inner Guardian will become more alert out of habit which should in turn waken your rational mind causing you to 'wake up' in the dream. You can use other bridges between waking and sleeping as long as you are using a sound that can be heard whilst you are asleep. Avoid linking your question to signals you cannot rely on such as the sound of an incoming telephone call. Unless you receive a call in the middle of the night you will not get the necessary trigger until you see a phone call in your dream.

As you can see, the basic principle is to develop the habit of regularly asking yourself whether what is happening is real. Try to answer the question with awareness rather than mechanically. It is important to train yourself to assess the situation critically and respond to the question conscientiously because for many dreamers the one thing that shifts them into lucid dreaming is recognising an anomaly, a contradiction or quirky element in their dream that normally, they would pay no attention to.

Why practice lucid dreaming? At the very least it is fun to consciously play with your dream like in a virtual game rather just have it 'happen'. No science fiction book or computer game can compare with lucid dreaming where you can do anything your imagination can conjure up.

When an unpleasant situation arises in a dream you can will it to change. For example, in a dream where someone is chasing you if you think that what is happening is real it will be very difficult to escape. If you are aware that you are dreaming, you will probably try to wake up from the dream which does not always work. However, once you are aware that it is just a dream you can act much more effectively by simply looking back at your pursuer and thinking: "Go away!" (Get lost! Disappear!). The pursuer will vanish immediately. You can even mentally lift them up and make them turn cartwheels in the air.

As long as two simple conditions are fulfilled the dreamer can control everything that happens in their dream. Firstly, they have to be aware that they are dreaming and secondly, there has to be the realisation that 'here' they can do anything. For example, if you are dreaming lucidly and want to fly nothing could be simpler. All it requires is your intention. An important distinction should be made between desire and intention. The desire alone to rise up into the air will lead to nothing, in dreaming as in waking. It is the same with raising your hand. You can say to yourself, that you want to raise your hand but you do not necessarily move it. Then you suddenly decide to act and you raise your hand, transforming desire into action by the power of intention. You do not think about how you are going to raise your hand, you just do it and it is the same with flying in a dream. You simply decide to rise up into the air and you can fly wherever you want to.

Returning to the example of the nightmare about being chased, the desire alone to be free of the pursuer is not enough. When fear takes hold, the rational mind loses the advantage at every turn of events. It is as if someone else decides the rules of the game. Even if you are aware that you are dreaming you will remain powerless to act until you decide to take control. Whilst you play the role of the passive victim the game will have control over you. It makes no difference that the game is a product of your own imagination. You are still effectively a slave to your imagination as you tremble in fear and run. In lucid dreaming you can choose the role you want to play. You can even stop and decide to swop roles with your pursuer, who will oblige you and turn on their heel. Imagine how comical that would be!

To any question that starts: "Is it possible to do such and such in a lucid dream?" the answer is yes. You can talk to people, the living and the deceased. You can do whatever you want with people and objects in your dream; fly around on other planets, solve problems, compose music, rehearse a scene, travel, etc. In comparison to what you can experience in a lucid dream, serious drugs are merely child's play and a lot more harmful. You can also bring information back from a dream. The only thing you cannot do is bring a material object back from a dream into physical reality. At least, I personally have never heard of this being done.

If you find that do not remember your dreams note what direction you sleep in. It is considered best to sleep with your head to the north. Avoid sleeping with your head to the west as this can have a negative impact on your health. I cannot explain why exactly but it is connected with the impact of the Earth's magnetic fields on the body. Try sleeping with your head to the north and your dreams should become more vivid and diverse.

Do not worry if you have no desire to practice lucid dreaming or perhaps have tried to induce lucid dreams without success. Lucid dreaming does play a certain role in Transurfing but it is not essential to practicing the technique. In addition, lucid dreaming carries a subtle threat. You are probably wondering why I introduced the topic so positively if now I intend to caution you. Lucid dreaming is a secret door that opens into the unknown. It would be irresponsible of me not to mention the potential danger that lurks behind that door so I will explain this below.

## The Dream Space

To solve the Guardian's riddle we have to be able to answer two questions: why is anything possible in lucid dreaming and why do dreams seem so real?

In lucid as in non-lucid dreams the pictures we see can be very vivid depicting the tiniest detail. Sometimes our dreams are sharper in form and richer in colour than everyday life. There is a hypothesis that the brain synthesizes certain pictures and during sleep perceives them in the same manner as it would in a waking state, similar to hypnosis. As yet, no-one has succeeded in proving this theory. The Transurfing model interprets the origin of the images we see in dreams slightly differently. Rather than independently creating these images the subconscious directly connects to the alternatives space and the information it contains.

If you look carefully at an object and then close your eyes and try to imagine it, you will not be able to 'see' it as clearly, even if you have excellent powers of visualization. The image your brain commits to memory is like a low resolution photograph. Even if the brain stores the photograph as a group of neurons in a certain condition no quantity of neurons would be enough to reproduce all the photographs of all our memories.

If our memories and dreams are a product of the information recorded by neurons, imagine how many of these cells would have to be contained in our heads. In the Transurfing model neurons are not defined as information carriers like memory bites in a computer. The brain does not store information itself. It stores the address to where the information is located in the alternatives space.

The brain is capable of retaining a certain volume of data. However, despite the fact that the brain represents a perfect biological system it is not capable of holding everything that we are willing to commit to memory. Neither can the brain synthesize the perfect virtual reality that we see in our dreams. It is difficult even in a waking state to close your eyes and mentally imagine pictures as naturally as one would see them in a dream and so it is pointless to indulge in flimsy arguments that claim that the mind suddenly acquires the ability to perceive imagined images perfectly as soon as it switches off in the sleep state.

As we said earlier the mind is not capable of creating anything fundamentally new. It can only build a new version of a house from old bricks. The rational mind only contains primitive information about the building bricks and how to put them together. We store more detailed information on paper or other forms of memory. All other information is channelled to the mind via the heart from the alternatives space.

In the Transurfing model the brain represents a comparatively primitive system whose function can be replicated by technology. Scientists have tried to replicate the functioning of the brain and yet attempts to create artificial intelligence have not yet been successful. The mind may be capable of understanding itself to some degree, but it is still incapable of understanding the nature of the heart. The secret of the intellect in any living being lies in the harmonious connection between heart and mind. So far, efforts in the sphere of cybernetics have been limited to modelling thought processes familiar to the mind. Maybe one day someone will design a machine capable of retrieving information from the alternatives space as the heart does.

Somehow the mind is capable of remembering the address of relevant sectors in the alternatives space. If it needs to remember something the mind turns to the heart which attunes to the corresponding sector in the information field. Perhaps the heart is not very good at attuning to sectors in the field; perhaps the mind is not very efficient when it comes to retrieving addresses in the information field; or maybe the mind and heart are just not very good at collaborating. Whatever the explanation, human memory is far from perfect.

The heart is capable of randomly attuning to sectors of the alternatives space that have not been transformed into physical reality. These are the pictures we see in our dreams and this is why the dream space appears so real. Dreams are not illusions in the usual sense of the word. They are not simply imagined. The mind genuinely sees them.

We know that people see pictures in their dreams that do not seem to be of this world. For example, one might see an architectural construction in minute detail that in principle could not exist anywhere on the planet. If a dream is simply the brain's memory of reality, where then are images sourced that we could never have observed with the waking eye?

As we have said previously, sectors of the alternatives space contain various versions of scripts and scenery. The scenery includes our surroundings as well as living beings. If you remember seeing someone you know in a dream, someone close to you or an acquaintance, you may have noted that they looked slightly different to how they are in waking. They may have a different hairstyle, unusual clothes, display different personality traits or behave in an uncharacteristic manner. In a dream you can recognize your friends, at the same time noticing something strange about them. This is a manifestation of the diversity of the alternatives space. In waking we observe the alternative of possible realities that has been realized in the physical domain. In dreams we are able to see things that have not been realized in the physical.

If you are ever lucky enough to see your reflection in a mirror when dreaming what you see may shock or scare you. The face you see reflected will not be the same as the face you are used to seeing when you look in the mirror. You will immediately sense that something has changed. This is because in dreams a person's appearance corresponds to the sector of the dream space that is being accessed. Depending on the difference between the virtual sector in the dream and current reality your appearance may differ to a greater or lesser extent.

The surroundings you see in a dream may also change depending on how far the virtual sector is from the sector that is manifest as your current reality. You might see your home town in a dream but it will appear slightly different. The same streets and houses will have a strange look to them and you will be confused as if you were seeing an apparition. If the energy body travels far from its current sector you may end up in a completely unfamiliar environment seeing places and people that live their own virtual life but do not exist on the material plane. Whatever role you play in that setting everything that happens there is happening on a non-physical level. Your role is also virtual, but not quite an illusion.

An alternative to your personality may or may not be present in that sector. If it is, you might be able to meet your energy double, although personally, I have not yet come to a conclusion concerning whether this can be done. It is more likely, that the soul simply appears in a role written into that sector's script. Perhaps this is why when people look in a mirror in a dream they see someone else's reflection.

Another interesting point about the dream state is that we see movement and take part in a virtual game despite the fact that information in the alternatives space is stationary, like a film roll stored on a shelf. All events are stored in the information field simultaneously. All that ever has been and all that will ever be already exists in the field. Why is it then, that when the soul flies in the alternatives space it sees life in motion and not in the form of still images? Maybe our powers of perception are such that we can only perceive information from the field in the form of a moving film roll. Or perhaps it is a quality of the space that it can only show itself to us in the form of moving alternatives. If the soul can fly around different sectors in the alternatives space it means that the soul observes movement, and if this is so, what time period is the soul accessing in the dream state, the past, the future, or the present?

Everything about the dream space generates more questions than answers. One thing however is certain. Dreams are not an illusion. It might seem weird to say that every night we move into the alternatives space and live a virtual life there. The alternatives space may not have a tangible, physical foundation, but it is real nonetheless.

What can be said about interpreting the meaning of dreams? The answer to this question may surprise you. You probably think that in the light of the above dreams would have every right to be messengers of future events. However, in the context of Transurfing dreams are not interpreted as signs unlike those described in the previous chapter.

Dreams demonstrate what could have happened in the past or what could happen in the future. We already know what actually happened in the past and the future in the alternatives space is too diverse to guarantee that what we see in our dreams is an image of the sector that is about to become realised in the physical. Adjacent sectors contain very similar scripts and scenery and so if the sector occurring in a dream lies close to the dreamer's current life line, it may well contain information relevant to impending events in that person's life. However, you can never be sure that the sector you see in a dream does in fact run close to your current life line.

The heart is capable of sensing approaching events and gut feeling is the most reliable sign a person can work with. In waking, the heart signals how comfortable it feels in response to what is happening both on the current life line and in relation to an imminent change in the flow. Other signs also relate to sectors currently manifest on the material level and those sectors immediately adjacent to them. In dreams, however, only God can know which sector the soul is exploring. No-one can totally rely on the information perceived in dreams precisely because the soul can fly into any sector at all within the alternatives space.

Another interesting question about dreams is the choice of script. Who chooses the script for the events we witness if they are not simply a product of our own imagination? A script is an essential part of every sector in the alternatives space. How events develop when the mind is sleeping so deeply that we do not remember our dreams nobody can say. In everyday life events are controlled by a person's mind and behaviour, but in our dreams the mind plays the role of passive observer taking things for granted.

Events are staged according to the script belonging to a given sector. As soon as the soul enters that sector events develop in accordance with the same expectations, anxieties and opinions that are a part of that person in waking. In dreams personal expectations and anxieties are realized instantly. For example, if a being comes onto the stage that the dreamer is afraid of a threat script will materialize instantly. You only have to have the slightest whiff of the thought that you might be in danger of being pursued and a monster will appear to start chasing you.

The soul chooses a script that corresponds to the dreamer's thoughts and expectations and moves through the alternatives space as their thoughts change. The film roll is turned by the driving force of the dreamer's thoughts and expectations. If you could completely stop your mind from functioning the film would freeze instantly. Thoughts however, do not stop; they continually chatter away in the mind.

Events in dreams do not necessarily conform to our usual perception of things because the mind's control is weakened. Things can appear all topsy-turvy; inconceivable visions can appear in which the laws of physics are defied. Incredible things can happen in lucid dreaming too because the rational mind, understanding that it is just a fantasy, will accept all sorts of strange things.

Now you can see why anything can happen in a dream. Dreaming is the soul's travel through the alternatives space, where all types of script exist. In lucid dreaming it is not so much that the script changes of its own accord, so much as it is selected via intention. As soon as the intention emerges in your thoughts to swop roles with your pursuer the soul re-attunes itself to a sector with the opposite script. This is the mechanism for lucid dreaming: intention selects the script.

If the mind realizes that it can control the script it forms a desire, for example, the desire to fly. This thought flashes through consciousness and is transformed by the soul into an intention. Intention is the force that carries the dreamer into the sector with a corresponding script.

Because the soul's travel through the alternatives space is unburdened by the density of matter our dreams are very fluid and the chosen script is realized instantly. In principle, the same thing happens in physical reality, the only difference being the speed at which the script is played out. In waking life events develop according to the same laws that govern dreams but not at such lightening speed because the material transformation of an alternative into physical reality involves inert matter. In this context the claim that our life is no more than a dream is unfounded and yet in other contexts the statement is not totally devoid of meaning. I have already described how thoughts are reproduced in the form of external, physical action, and are gradually transformed into the events of physical reality. You always create the object of your mind's most dominating thoughts.

Thought is energy vibrating at the frequency of a particular life line. In physical reality the shift to the life line that corresponds to the vibration of your thought energy is delayed by various physical factors. In comparison to a sector that exists purely as information, a sector realized on the material level has a heavy glutinous quality, like resin is dense in comparison to water. This quality hinders the material transformation of a potential reality. In dreams inert matter poses no obstacle and so the process of shifting between sectors occurs instantly.

Now you can see why I brought up the theme of dreams. In order to create the destiny you desire it is important to be clear about how thought carries us from one sector to another and why not all our desires find expression on the material level. You do not have to practice lucid dreaming in order to attain your purpose though. Our goal is simply to learn the knack of choosing the script we want in waking. It is much more important to learn to 'wake up' in real life than in a virtual one not least because, as we mentioned before, the activities of lucid dreaming involve an element of risk.

Anyone who practices lucid dreaming would probably assure you that lucid dreaming it is not dangerous at all, but perhaps these people fail to realize that they are walking a knife edge. No-one can guarantee that you will return from a lucid dream. There is no danger of this whilst your soul is flying in unrealized sectors of the field, but what do you think happens if the soul accidentally ends up in a realized sector of the alternatives space? There is a hypothesis that a person can end up physically manifesting in that sector. I know the reader is unlikely to be easily frightened by wild conjecture, but as you can see, the supposition does point to a certain risk, and what if it were true?

It is a well know fact that there were sorcerers of old who had perfected the art of dreaming and could intentionally pass over into other worlds forever. Their physical bodies literally disappeared from their own world. These sorcerers were either very reckless, or knew exactly what they were doing. Today, tens of thousands of people go missing every year without trace. Some people believe that some of these people are abducted by aliens. I cannot corroborate this theory, but I do wonder whether some of these missing people are lost in dreaming and do not return from a sector of physical reality that they have visited in their dream. The soul does not necessarily have to be dreaming lucidly to fly into a physically manifest sector of the field.

In this context, lucid dreaming can be risky because the mind, having had a taste of unlimited freedom, is tempted to throw caution to the wind and fly off into unknown corners of the field not knowing whether the soul will be able to return. If the physical body fails to return from a foreign sector of the field to the place that person usually inhabits they are simply said to have died in their sleep. It is not my intention to scare the reader but it is worth remembering that dreaming is not an illusion and in lucid dreaming it can be tempting to go a little wild knowing that you can do whatever you want without being punished or hurting anyone. The dreamer may simply enjoy flying into other worlds to explore. There is no reason why not whilst the soul is visiting sectors of the field that only exists within the information field. The only danger is if the soul wanders into a sector of the field that is manifest as physical reality. It may take the mind a little while to realize that virtual reality has become physical reality. It would be foolish to comfort yourself with the thought that our visible world is the only world that exists in the universe. The alternatives space is boundless and without doubt contains many manifest sectors inhabited by all sorts of living beings.

You could just as easily wander into a world that fits your picture of paradise as you could into a world that fits your vision of hell with no idea of where that world is located in relation to your own. It could be a million light years from Earth, or it could be right here in your coffee cup. It could be very far away or close by but in another dimension. As we said in the first chapter, eternity appears to cover an infinite distance only if you are looking directly down at it. That said, whether the parallel world is near or far from home is irrelevant. It is very easy to lose your way but much more difficult to find your way home again, however little or far you have actually wandered from your home sector.

We will not go into the theme of travel via astral projection here. Astral projection is something very different to lucid dreaming although it is also not without its risks. Most importantly, it bears no relation to Transurfing. The connection between dreaming and Transurfing is fairly minor as our task is not to escape from harsh reality by residing in the parallel worlds of dreams, but to make reality itself more comfortable.

There is no need to be particularly afraid of dreaming but it should be taken seriously. If you get a negative feeling in your gut when you read about lucid dreaming it indicates that this is not an activity you should become involved in. Your gut feeling will tell you whether something is risky for you personally or not. The heart is better than the mind at sensing impending danger and so dreaming without the active intrusion of the rational mind is far safer. However, if you are quite decided that lucid dreaming is for you, be cautious. Do not go sticking your head in the lion's mouth and be careful to retain maximum levels of awareness. In dreaming as in waking, make yourself at home but do not forget you are a guest.

## The Magical Power of Intention

We have explained that our thoughts and desires direct how we move through the alternatives space and that when we are asleep this movement is free of the burden of inert matter inherent in material realization. The slightest hint of a thought is enough to instantly carry the dreamer into a corresponding sector of the field. In sectors manifest in the physical everything happens more slowly due to the heavy density of matter. The principle however, is the same: our thoughts have a direct impact on the course of events in our life.

"Is that a fact?" The reader may ask, not without a touch of irony, as yet untouched by the miracles of the strange Transurfing model. "And there was I thinking that it was action and not thought that determined the course of my life. How lucky I am to have been informed that it does not matter what I do as long as I think the right things".

In actual fact, there is no contradiction here and it is not really about what a person first thinks and then does. As a rule people pay more attention to the consequences of their actions than their thoughts because they are more clearly evident. This is connected with the impact of balanced forces. We have already described examples of events in which balanced forces engender a result that is the direct opposite of one's original striving. You want one thing but you experience the opposite. The more excess potential you channel into a situation, the more reality will take on a different shape to your original desire. Unable to find a rational explanation for how strangely the world behaves, people imagine that they must either have slipped up somewhere, or that it is just very difficult to get what you really want in life.

It might seem that there is a contradiction in the Transurfing model. On the one hand it states that our thoughts program the energy that passes through us and this carries us onto the life lines that match those them, or, as you now know, thoughts transfer us into sectors of the alternatives space that have a corresponding script and scenery. This is indeed what happens when we are dreaming. On the other hand, it seems as if our thoughts do not really have much weight at all in the physical reality of our day to day life because we cannot achieve the things we desire with our thinking alone. No amount of thinking will initiate a shift to another life line, even accounting for the density mater, whilst you sit on the sofa doing nothing. "Exactly!" I hear the pragmatic reader cry... "You have to act! It has nothing to do with thought and transition." In principle the reader would be right, but only in principle.

There only appears to be a contradiction in how we have presented the role of thought. We are gradually working towards a more comprehensive explanation of why attempts at visualization rarely achieve the desired result. As you know, the most obvious reason for this lies in the excess potential which we create when we are intensely attached to the fulfilment of our desires.

The second reason why visualization does not necessarily work has to do with the inert quality of material realization. Sometimes people fail to reach their goals simply because they are not persistent enough and so the goal do not have time to materialize before the person loses their passion and gives it up as a 'lost cause'. You may even recall situations from your own life where the thing you wanted came much later than you expected, once you had given up hope and forgotten about your original 'order'.

Another widespread mistake is the expectation that everything about the goal can be achieved instantly. Also, if you set several goals at the same time that are not connected your thought energy will be spread too thin and dissipate into emptiness. The alternatives flow will not allow you to swim in different directions at the same time. Attuning to a targeted sector is most effective when focused on one specific goal. We will return to this idea in the next chapter.

In dreaming, none of the inauspicious factors described above apply. In dreams the excess potential of projected importance is much less burdensome, the quality of density plays no part and the mind rests from the daily struggle to achieve its goals. That said, even in dreaming not all our desires are fulfilled. Those who practice lucid dreaming will know that not every whim will carry the dreamer to the matching sector. So what is the problem?

The answer is as simple as it is fundamental. There is no problem, and it has nothing to do with a person's thoughts. The secret is that realization is brought about not by desire but by one's attitude to that which is desired. It is not a person's thoughts about the object of their desire that is significant but something else difficult to describe in words. There is a certain force that has the last word and yet it lingers in the wings whilst the thinking game takes centre stage. You will of course have guessed that this force is intention. The rational mind has not yet found a comprehensive definition for intention among the shelves of its chosen designations. Here we will roughly define intention as resoluteness in the decision to have and act.

Now you can see that thoughts of themselves really do not mean anything in the process of attuning to a specific sector in the alternatives space. Thoughts are just foam on the crest of the wave of intention. It is not desire that is fulfilled so much as intention.

Here is another metaphor to describe the idea of wanting. You want to raise your hand. The desire is registered in your thoughts at which point you become aware of the desire. But it is not the desire that actually makes you raise your hand. Desire of itself does not have the power to generate action. The hand only lifts when your thoughts about the desire have been fully processed leaving only the decision to act. Neither is it decisiveness that raises your hand. You may have made a firm decision to raise your hand but not do so. So, what in the end makes you lift you hand? What can we call this thing that lies beyond decisiveness? The rational mind is powerless to provide a clear and comprehensive explanation of what intention actually is. Our definition of intention as resoluteness in the decision to have and to act only demonstrates the prelude to the force that creates action. All we can do is state the fact that the hand is lifted not by desire and not by decisiveness but by intention. The thing designated as 'resoluteness' is introduced to cause your muscles to finally contract.

It really is very difficult to explain what intention represents. We do not even question how we move our arms and legs. We forgot that there was a time when we did not know how to walk or what to do when we first sat on a bicycle without stabilisers. Even when we learn to ride a bike we cannot explain how exactly we did it. Intention is a very subtle thing. It is difficult to acquire and easily lost. For example, someone who is paralysed totally loses the power of intention. The desire to move the legs exists but the ability to enact the desire is lost. There are known incidents where people who were paralyzed have been able to walk again thanks to hypnosis or a miraculous healing which returns the power of intention.

Desire of itself leads to nothing. On the contrary, the more intensely you desire something the more active the backlash of balanced forces. Desire focuses on the goal whereas intention focuses on the process of achieving the goal. Desire is realized via the creation of excess potential in relation to the goal. Intention is realized via action. Intention does not intellectualize about whether the goal is achievable or not. Once the decision is made all you have to do is act. If in a dream when you want to fly you start analyzing whether it is possible or not, nothing will happen. If you want to fly you just have to intend yourself up into the air. In dreams the choice of any script is brought about not by desire as such, but by the firm expectation of having the object of your desire. You do not analyze; you do not desire; you simply have and act.

We have talked about the futility of wanting something already, but what about asking for something to be given to you? There is not much that can be said about asking for things. There is no point in asking the Angels, God or higher powers for the things you want. The laws of the universe are absolutely dispassionate, completely indifferent to your complaints, pain and lament. Gratitude however is another matter because gratitude is by nature similar to unconditional love. When a person experiences feelings of sincere gratitude they radiate creative energy. The excess potential created by a request, on the contrary, delays action leading to a concentration of energy. Complaints, requests and demands are the invention of pendulums aimed at harvesting energy. Thoughts expressed in the words 'give' and 'want' automatically create excess potential. When you speak these words it suggests that you do not have something you want and are trying to attract it with the power of your thoughts.

There really is no point in trying to solicit something from higher powers or any other power. It is the same as walking into a shop and asking the owner to give you some of what they sell for free. You can request things of people within certain limits if they are well disposed towards you but everything else in this world is built on objective law and not the desire to have someone help you.

Imagine how absurd it would be if the Earth asked the Sun for permission to shift into a different orbit. It is equally as absurd to ask for something of anything other than another human being. The only thing that does make sense is your intention to choose. When you choose you really are creating your own destiny. If the parameters of the energy you radiate match your choice and no laws are being contradicted then you will receive what you choose. Choice is about the decision to have and to take action, not about request.

Intention does not create excess potential because the energy inherent in the desire's potential is dissipated through action. Intention unites desire and action. Intention in action discharges the excess potential created by the desire quite naturally, without invoking the medium of balanced forces. If you need to solve a problem, act. Contemplating the complexity of the problem simply creates excess potential and feeds the pendulum your energy. When you take action you realize the energy behind intention. "The hands do what the eyes fear to pursue", as they say. When you set about realizing an intention, trust the alternatives flow and the problem will resolve of its own accord.

Waiting, worrying, doubt and desire only drain your energy. Intention in action not only dissipates the energy behind excess potential, it uploads that energy to the person's energy field. You can see how true this is when you are studying. Swotting and cramming requires a lot of energy for a relatively minor result. In contrast, rather than leaving you feeling exhausted, learning via action, physical work or applied problem-solving is inspiring and fulfilling.

Intention is the driving force that transforms sectors of the alternatives space into physical reality. The question is why our fears are also realized. Surely our fears cannot be categorized as intention? In real life, just as in dreams, we are constantly chased by alternatives with a script to match our fears, anxieties, aversions and hates. Why should these scripts be transformed into physical reality if we neither desire them, nor intend to have them? And yet we do experience the things we love to hate. It would appear that the nature of our desires, whether it is something we love or something we love to hate, is ultimately irrelevant. Why? The mystery is unveiled by an even more enigmatic and powerful force we refer to as outer intention.

## Outer Intention

Intention is a combination of desire and action. The intention to do something by your own efforts is obviously a personal inner intention. It is much more difficult to extend the action of intention to the external world. We refer to this kind of intention as outer intention. Outer intention has the potential to rule the world, or rather, to choose the model of behaviour the external world lives by, as well as determine the script and scenery.

The concept of outer intention is critical to the alternatives model. Today, all manipulations of time, space and matter that cannot be explained logically tend to be described as magic or paranormal phenomena. These things are the work of outer intention which works to choose life lines in the alternatives space.

Inner intention could never transform an apple tree into an avenue of pear trees. Outer intention does not transform anything either but it is capable of choosing an avenue of pear trees instead of an apple tree in the alternatives space and executing the shift to the relevant sector, as a result of which, the apple tree is substituted with a pear. Nothing happens to the apple tree. There is simply a substitution: material realization shifts in the alternatives space from one life line to another. No power on earth is actually capable of magically transforming one object into another. Inner intention may try but its capacities are sorely limited.

You cannot move a pencil that is lying on a table with the power of thought but if you hold the firm intention to imagine that the pencil has moved you may be successful. Let us say that you were able to move the pencil (some people with extra-sensory abilities are capable of doing this). What I am about to tell you may seem strange but physically, the pencil will not actually have gone anywhere. At the same time, you are not simply fantasizing that the pencil has moved. In the first instance the pencil is subjected to thought energy which is clearly too weak to shift a material object. In the second case, you slip across life lines in which the pencil has a different location. Can you see the difference?

The pencil is lying on the table. With the power of your intention you imagine that it is beginning to move. Your attention scans sectors in the alternatives space where the pencil is placed in all sorts of other positions. If the thought energy you radiate at this stage is powerful enough, the pencil will materialize at different points in the space of physical reality. It is the separate pencil 'layer' that moves whilst the remaining layers, including the layer of the observer, remain unmoved. It is not the object itself that moves, but its point of realization in the alternatives space.

It is hardly surprising that most people cannot get the pencil to move. In the majority of people capabilities such as these are weakly developed, not because they have a weak energy field but because it is so difficult to evoke pure outer intention if you struggle to believe that such things are possible at all. People who have the ability of telekinesis do not move objects. Rather they have a unique capacity for the power of intention that enables them to shift the location of a point of material realization in the alternatives space.

Everything connected with outer intention is generally considered mysticism, magic or at best inexplicable phenomena, proof of which is successfully stored away on distant, dusty shelves. The predominant worldview totally negates these things and so anything irrational evokes a strange fear. People who witness UFOs also experience high levels of fear and consternation. UFOs are so far from our day to day reality that we do not want to believe they exist. When they display the stunning audacity of being real they evoke a weird kind of horror.

Outer intention is a case of "if the mountain won't come to Mohammed, then Mohammed must go to the mountain." Did you think it was just a saying? Outer intention does not have to be all about paranormal phenomena. In day to day life we constantly come up against the results of outer intention. Outer intention is the force or mechanism that causes our misgivings and worst expectations can be realized in the physical. Because the dynamics of outer intention function independently of our will, we do not necessarily realize what is happening. It is much harder to work with the force of outer intention that it is to work with personal inner intention.

Imagine that you landed on an island where you had to face a tribe of savages. Your life would depend on what you did next. One possible outcome is that you would become the victim, apologising for you presence, making gifts, justifying yourself and trying to ingratiate yourself with the natives. In this case, you would be likely to get eaten. The second possible outcome is that you would become the conqueror, showing signs of aggression, launching an attack and trying to assert your control over the tribe. You would either be victorious or lose your life. The third alternative is that you would present yourself as master and leader. If you were to reach out your hand like the powers that be you would be obeyed. When you have no doubt in your own might, your thought energy is attuned to life lines where you are king and everyone else assumes that this is how things should be.

The first two types of behaviour demonstrate inner intention, whereas the third type demonstrates how outer intention works. Outer intention simply chooses a certain alternative.

The fly that beats itself against a window pane right next to an open window acts on the basis of inner intention. What do you think outer intention would look like in the case of the fly? You would think the answer would be for the fly to discover the open window and escape but it is not. If the fly were just to take a step backwards and look around it would see the pane of glass and spot the open window. In the case of the fly it is just a matter of having a slightly wider perspective on reality. Outer intention literally opens the window for the fly.

Inner intention aims to impact the outside world of your current life line. Everything that is possible within the confines of a materialized sector can be described by the laws of the natural sciences and fits nicely with the limits of a material worldview. Outer intention by contrast chooses a life line on which your desire can be realized.

The analogy of the fly in relation to intention is probably quite clear by now. Insisting on flying through a closed window is an expression of inner intention, whereas shifting to a life line where the window is opened is an expression of outer intention. You can make a superhuman effort to move the pencil with your thoughts or, working with outer intention simply scan the alternatives space for the pencil where it is placed differently.

Let us imagine that it is Christmas Eve and you are certain you will not be able to find a parking spot just outside the supermarket. The voice of inner intention would say there could not possibly be a free parking space because the whole world is out shopping. Outer intention allows for the possibility that one space might become free just as you arriving at the supermarket. It is not so much that in the case of working with outer intention you solidly believe in the possibility. It is more that you simply claim the possibility of what you deem necessary, dispassionately and unconditionally.

Outer intention is born of improvisation, like insight. You cannot prepare for outer intention. All magic rituals are aimed at evoking the power of outer intention but ritual is just the preparation for magic, a theatrical prelude. Imagine that you fell from a cliff in a dream. You would have to evoke the intention to float in the air. You would not have time to prepare yourself or speak an incantation. All you could do is take it into your head to fly and you would do so. Spells and magical attributes can help to awaken the power inherent in each and every individual but they cannot directly apply it.

Unfortunately, in contemporary man the ability to direct the power of outer intention has all but atrophied. People have even contrived to erase the ability from memory although ancient legends vaguely hint at it. Today it is pointless trying to prove that the Egyptian pyramids and similar constructions were built with the power of outer intention. Any hypothesis explaining the principle of their construction will be considered, just not this one. The ancients who built the pyramids would no doubt be quite amused to learn that their descendants considered the ancestors a more primitive civilization and were bending over backwards trying to guess the secret of their construction within the limited context of inner intention.

Time has not totally deprived us of working with outer intention; the ability is just blocked. Everything that can come to be called magic is nothing more than an attempt to work with outer intention. For centuries the alchemists sought in vain for the philosopher's stone that would turn any base metal into gold. There are many complicated and misguided books dedicated to the topic of alchemy. Legend has it that the secret of the philosopher's stone fits into just a few lines inscribed on an emerald tablet, the so-called Smaragdine Table. If the secret is so succinct why are there so many books on the subject? No doubt, because of the desire to understand the meaning of those few lines

You will have heard of the Holy Grail that has been so ardently sought including by representatives of the Third Reich. There are many legends about ritual objects that supposedly endow their owner with unlimited power and strength. Such legends are of course nave misconceptions. Fetishes, incantations and other magical attributes have no power at all. Belief in the magical power of ritual attributes can to some extent help the subconscious to waken from the daydream and stimulate the weakly developed capacity for outer intention. However, the power is not in the objects themselves but in outer intention and the individuals who use the objects.

Ancient civilizations so perfected the skill of working with outer intention that they no longer required the prop of magic ritual. Naturally, their power in this regard created intense excess potential which is why civilizations like Atlantis which had conquered the secrets of outer potential were destroyed by balanced forces. Shards of secret knowledge have been passed on to us in the form of magical practice with the aim of restoring what was lost. In general however, these are frail and superficial attempts often undermined by false understanding and confusion with inner intention. The essence of the power of outer intention as such has remained a mystery.

The priority placed on the development of inner intention and the loss of knowledge concerning outer intention is the work of pendulums which feed on the energy of inner intention. A person can only truly develop the ability to work with outer intention once they are as free as they can be from the manipulation of pendulums. You could say that the pendulums have so far managed to keep the upper hand in the battle with man.

We have established that the nature of thought energy aimed at achieving set goals manifests in three different forms: desire, inner and outer intention. Desire is the concentration of attention on the goal itself. As you can see, desire has no power. You can think about your desire to reach a goal for as long as you like but there will be no change. Inner intention is the concentration of attention on the process of moving towards the goal. This can work but demands a lot of effort. Outer intention is the concentration of attention on how the goal is realized of its own accord. Outer intention simply allows the goal to realize itself. Outer intention presupposes the firm belief that the alternative of the goal's realization already exists and only remains to be chosen. Inner intention achieves the goal, outer intention chooses it.

Inner intention can be characterised by the thought pattern: "I insist that.", whilst outer intention follows a totally different principle: "Circumstances are such that.", or "It turns out that". The difference between these two thought patterns is huge. In the first case you actively exert pressure on the world making it obey your wish. In the second case you take the position of an outside observer where everything happens according to your will but without the slightest coercion. It is the difference between changing and choosing. You fly in your dream because of the thought pattern: "Oh! I'm flying", not "I insist on being able to fly".

Inner intention strives directly towards the goal. Outer intention is focused on the process of its independent realization. Outer intention does not hurry to achieve the goal as it is already a done deal. The fact that the goal will indeed be achieved is neither doubted nor discussed. Outer intention is unremitting, cool-headed, detached and moves the goal indomitably towards its realization. The following bilateral comparisons can help discern where inner intention and outer intention come into play: you try to get something from life  life freely gives you what you want; fight for your place in the sun  the world offers you its embrace; bang on a locked door  the door opens wide before you; try passing through a wall  the wall moves aside for you; you try and generate certain events in your life  the events come of their own accord. Using inner intention a person tries to reposition their own fact of material realization relative to the alternatives space, whereas outer intention shifts the alternatives space so that your material realization is where it needs to be. Can you see the difference? The end is the same in both cases, but it is achieved by very different means.

If the second part of the comparisons listed above describes your actions then you have understood the principle of outer intention. When you battle for something it is like you are trying to push your realization into the alternatives space, whereas when you choose something the space comes to you. Of course, the alternatives space does not totally independently reposition itself in relation to your where you are within it. You have to take certain actions first which lie beyond the widely accepted perception of things. Throughout this book I will provide examples of the difference in approach between inner and outer intention. Outer intention is the cornerstone of Transurfing. It is the key to the Guardian's riddle about why there is no need for us to fight with the world and why we can simply choose the things we want.

Nothing is beyond the capacity of outer intention. You can fly in waking or walk on water if you have the outer intention of a Christ and it would not represent a contradiction of the laws of physics for the laws of physics work in just one sector of material realization. Outer intention is manifest in the movement of realization through different sectors of the alternatives space. It is impossible for a person to fly within the limits of a sector that is manifest in physical reality because you would have to resist the gravitational pull of the Earth. Trying to do so would be an example of inner intention demanding a massive input of energy in order to overcome the force of gravity. Free flight in dreaming as in waking is not really movement through space in physical reality. It is a shift in the relative position of your realization point. In other words, the body consequently materializes in new points of the physical space.

You could also put it this way: it is not that you fly through space but that space moves relative to you in accordance with the choice of your outer intention. This probably does not sound quite right. Nonetheless, we will not go any deeper into the theory of relativity here. We can only guess how it really happens.

In order to fly you have to have absolute faith in the idea that it is possible to do so. Why did Jesus so matter-of-factly say: "According to your faith, be it unto you"? Perhaps because nothing can be received or completed without intention and there is no intention without faith. We would not be able to take a single step unless we believed it was possible to do so. However, you will never be able to convince the rational mind that it is possible to fly in waking as it is in dreaming, at least in a normal state of consciousness. There are yogis in India who can leave the ground during meditation. (These are the only reliable cases of levitation that I have come across personally). Their intention may only be sufficient to attune to the movement of alternatives in which the body floats in mid air. Taking into account the incredible capacities of yogis in comparison to ordinary people you can imagine just how difficult it must be to overlay one's personal will on the power of outer intention.S

The dozing mind can accept the possibility of flight during sleep but in conscious waking, however hard you might try to convince yourself otherwise, human flight will always seem impossible. For the mind to accept something there has to be faith as well as knowledge. Faith presupposes the possibility of doubt for where there is belief there is also room for doubt. Knowledge eradicates doubt. You have no doubt that when you throw an apple it will fall to the ground. You do not have to believe in this, you just know it to be true. Pure outer intention is free of doubt and consequently, of belief also. Whereas in the sleep state a mere hint of outer intention is enough for flight to occur, in the world of inert material realization the intention has to be absolutely pure. There is no need to be overly concerned with acquiring a knack for creating pure intention. To realize your personal goals run-of-the-mill intention will do! It just takes some time for material realization to build up momentum.

It is interesting to consider outer intention in the context of hypnosis. It is difficult to say whether hypnosis is a result of inner or outer intention. Thought energy alone is clearly insufficient to enable personal will or inner intention to move physical objects, even very light ones. Thought energy is sufficient however, for one person to send a suggestion to the unconscious mind of another. Some people seem to have a marked ability to radiate and direct powerful waves of energy. If that energy is programmed with specific thoughts the person the energy is aimed at comes under the effect of hypnotic suggestion. I hope you do not think that the effect of hypnosis is occasioned simply by magnetic gaze or mesmeric passes. The impact of the hypnotist's energy does not rely on visual or voice contact. However, as far as I am aware, hypnosis works mainly at close distances suggesting that the impact results from a transmission of thought energy directed by inner intention. In cases where hypnosis works across greater distances, outer intention undoubtedly plays an important role, unless some other technique is being used.

To experience the power of outer intention you have to escape Procrustes' bed of everyday thinking and feeling. The rational mind usually exists within the narrow confines of the predominant worldview. It can be very difficult to move beyond the limits of the conventional mind set because outer intention is essential to make the leap and the rational mind will not easily yield its position. It is a vicious circle because you have to apply outer intention in order to experience it. Not an easy task.

I am afraid I will have to disappoint the reader as I am not aware of any exercises that specifically develop a feeling for outer intention. The aim of such an exercise if it existed would probably be something strange like "to intend to have intention". The only way of understanding the nature of outer intention more deeply is to practice lucid dreaming. In place of some targeted exercise however, I would recommend simply practising conscious living in the sphere of physical reality; not so much training outer intention as living it. The reality of the waking state differs from dreaming only in the inert quality of material realization in the alternatives space. In all other ways they are the same.

You may wonder what we have to work with if we are not able to direct the power of outer intention. Of course, you are highly unlikely to move slabs of stone weighing several tonnes, but the density of the material world can be overcome by time. Conventional methods of achieving goals are based on activating the power of inner intention. The essence of the Transurfing method in contrast is based on leaving inner intention alone and applying the principle of outer intention.

Inner intention transforms into outer intention when the conscious mind meets and merges with the subconscious. The boundary between the conscious and the subconscious mind is so elusive that it is almost impossible to draw a clear line marking exactly where inner intention ends and outer intention begins. It is like the feeling of free fall or the feeling you have when you first manage to keep you balance riding a bicycle. The closest feeling to the point of merging between the conscious and the subconscious is when you deliberately raise your body into the air in a dream and find that you can fly.

The conscious mind merges in total harmony with the subconscious in a very narrow segment. It is easy to deliberately move your finger, a little harder to move your toes and even harder to wiggle your ears, to say nothing of manipulating your inner organs. By comparison, the muscle of outer intention is even less developed. Hence, to join the conscious and the subconscious mind in the intention to leave the ground and fly is considered practically impossible.

Levitation is the highest embodiment of outer intention but we will set ourselves more grounded goals than meditating several feet off the ground. The power of outer intention is so great that even its tiniest part is enough to achieve formidable results. In everyday life outer intention works independently from our personal will and can even be detrimental such as when it manifests in the form of our worst expectations. We have already discussed situations in which a person experiences the things they love to hate. On the one hand you are followed by the things you fear, hate or wish to free of because your thought energy focused on the unwanted event carries you into a sector where it exists. On the other hand, it was never your intention to experience these things, so how does intention function in this instance?

Inner intention is focused on avoiding the things you see as negative, that are oppressive, cause you anxiety or evoke resentment. There are some things we just want to avoid with all our heart, things that cut us to the quick, that evoke fear and aversion. The rational mind is fearful and the soul too is anxious. The rational mind experiences enmity and the heart feels the same. The mind experiences hate and the heart all the more so. The heart and the mind are in complete agreement. It is in these moments of union between the conscious and the subconscious that outer intention is activated. The only problem is that it is not directed in accordance with your personal will. It is probably not quite accurate to speak here of outer intention being directed. Whereas inner intention has the focus of staving off the negative, outer intention would be more accurately described as giving the green light for the realization of whatever the soul and mind agree on. What they agree on of course, is their assessment of a given event. Whether it is a desired event or not is irrelevant. It is as if outer intention, on seeing that the mind and the heart are united, automatically chooses the matching sector in the alternatives space.

The heart and the mind most often agree over the things they would rather avoid in life and so the cases where a person's worst expectations are realized provide the most indicative illustration of how outer intention works. As we have said before, people usually have an excellent idea of the things they do not wish to experience and only have a vague sense of what they desire with a passion. To subject outer intention to your will you have to wipe all negative thought from your mind and establish harmony between the heart and mind in your positive striving. You already understand what a harmful effect a negative attitude can have on your life. When you express resentment and dissatisfaction you become subject to the impact of balanced forces. Then you become dependent on destructive pendulums and your thought energy becomes focused on negative sectors of the alternatives space. Attracted by the negativity outer intention transforms the sector into the physical reality of life.

This is why outer intention can work independently from your will. It is difficult to harness the power of outer intention but there are ways of making it work for you. This is our next task. We have already established that to avoid experiencing the undesired results of outer intention it is essential not to create the potential of projected importance and to refuse to have anything to do with negativity. Now we need to grapple with the task of how to make outer intention serve the goals you set for yourself. It may not be quite as simple as rubbing Aladdin's lamp but methods to activate the mechanism of outer intention do exist.

Much of what has been described above may be a little obscure. It is a theme that is hard to understand because outer intention defies literal description. The picture will become clearer however. I have no desire to surround these ideas in a fog of mystery, just to intrigue you, as adepts of certain schools and spiritual groups have a tendency to do. Everything you need to know about outer intention is contained in this book and all the skills you need to have to work with it can be acquired from personal experience if you put the principles of the Transurfing method into practice. No special classes or seminars are required, neither is there anything mystical or mysterious about the Transurfing technique.

"Secret knowledge" is often clouded by metaphor and allusion but a person who thinks clearly also tends to express their ideas clearly. If a guru claims to carry "secret knowledge" so precious that it can only be whispered into the ear of a disciple, the rest of the time being alluded to only allegorically or with profound rhetoric, they probably have not fully penetrated the essence of this knowledge either.

It is not our goal to acquire the power of absolute intention capable of lifting the body into the air. If we knew how to levitate there would be nothing left to say. The alternatives space exists and the freedom of choice exists. You choose which possible pathway in the alternatives space manifests as your physical reality. The task we have set ourselves is to learn how to achieve goals given the capabilities and resources we already have at our disposal. Even though these may have their limitations Transurfing represents knowledge that can awaken a power we rarely make use of. Transurfing does not require you to exhaust yourself with meditations, various practices, lucid dreaming and other mystical activities that are enough to make the head spin. I understand that the Transurfing model seems unlikely to work but all you have to do is reconsider your established views of the world and you will be able to achieve things you previously thought were beyond you. Likely as not you will soon become convinced that you really can make the power of outer intention work in your favour.

## The Game Script

Dreams are very malleable and so they serve as an excellent model by which to demonstrate how outer intention works. So, we will return now to the theme of dreams. As we said, in essence dreaming is very similar to real life. Everything that happens in a dream is a result of a game played according to a script chosen by the soul. When the rational mind sleeps we dream but we do not remember our dreams. The soul travels uninhibitedly through the alternatives space. Where exactly the soul is gallivanting whilst the mind sleeps, no-one can say. All our conscious memories are controlled by the mind. Dreams that we remember occur when the mind is just dozing. The mind's control is weaker during this stage of sleep being reduced to the role of passive observer. The mind is not imagining things when we dream; it simply perceives what the soul witnesses in sectors of the alternatives space that have not been transformed into physical reality. In non-lucid dreaming the mind does not weigh on the soul with its need to control. It is like a cinema-goer watching a film. On some level though the mind does experience what it sees and the sensations evoked are communicated to the heart which immediately attunes itself to a matching sector. The script therefore, changes as it goes along, the scenery and characters likewise adjusting to the changing script. The imagination plays a part in dreaming only to the extent that it generates ideas.

In a dream, when you have the passing thought that a person may act aggressively towards you the thought is instantly materialised and someone appears on the scene to threaten you. As soon as the weather vane of your opinion turns in a different direction foe is immediately transformed into friend. It is a bit like a kitten playing in front of a mirror whose mood smoothly shifts from friendly to aggressive as it jumps about. The kitten sees a figure in front of it and wonders what to expect from it. At first its attitude is neutral and curious. Then the kitten lifts a paw and the assessment instantly shifts towards possible danger. The kitten puts its hackles up, makes an attack and then dodges to protect itself. The kitten jumps backwards, sees its comic image in the mirror and its mood changes to one more playful. Then the ritual is repeated as the kitten dynamically corrects the script either attacking its reflection or substituting aggression with playfulness.

A person corrects the script in non-lucid dreaming in exactly the same way. The kitten is not aware that it is looking at its own reflection just as a person is not aware that they are dreaming. Did you know that when a person looks in the mirror the facial expression they see is not the facial expression they usually have. A person's expression changes the moment they look in the mirror, too quickly for them to notice. This is because of habits and desires we have since childhood to look a certain way. As soon as you say to a child: "Look in the mirror. See how awful you look when you cry!", their face will change. Adults also have certain expectations when they look at their reflection. They say to themselves: "I like myself" or "How do I look", or "I look terrible", etc. The facial expression is immediately corrected depending on the thought.

The mirror is an example of how we dynamically correct our own script, only the mirror is an example of how inner intention functions, whereas the dream is an example of outer intention. In waking a person sees their reflection in the mirror and immediately inner intention changes the expression on their face according to their expectations. A dream is like a play, and the script that will direct the role of the outside world is chosen by the dreamer's outer intention in accordance with their experience and expectations but irrespective of whether they will experience pain.

Participants in a dream behave exactly as the dreamer expects them to. The original idea is nothing more than the initial impetus; the rest is orchestrated by outer intention. The dreamer's own behaviour in a dream is determined by inner intention, whereas everything else is subject to the dreamer's outer intention, whether they like it or not. As we have already said, inner intention tries to impact the world directly, whereas outer intention allows the external world to become realised in accordance with intention.

In dreams events can only unfold according to a script you can tolerate. Nothing could happen in a dream that the dreamer could not conceive of. This partly explains the low level of critique the mind applies to the events that take place in dreams. Even total absurdities are taken for granted because the dreamer writes and produces their own dream script. It is not that the absurd is considered the norm so much that the subconscious does not rule out the possibility of the absurd, for in a dream the rational mind dozes whilst the subconscious can easily anticipate all sorts of unlikely events.

Over the course of a lifetime a person's brain deals with a huge mass of information from external sources as well as from the world of its own fantasies. Some of that information is filtered out by the rational mind as unreal and is scrapped. The information does not actually go anywhere. It may be locked in a closet but the subconscious still has access to it. When sleep approaches the soul tiptoes into the closet and unbeknown to the rational mind experiments with all sorts of outlandish scripts. Moreover, in non-lucid dreaming the soul is free to choose which sectors of the alternatives space it wishes to visit. The majority of these sectors are never realised because their events are irrational which means they require large inputs of energy to create. Only God can know how exactly the soul chooses its dreams.

However wildly the soul chooses its dreams the rational mind witnesses them and corrects the script according to its experience and expectations. As we have already established it is a person's worst fears and all that they strive to avoid that is most quickly realized. In this case outer intention functions with no regard for personal will and often to their detriment.

In physical reality a person is also very likely to end up experiencing the things they fear. The mind is capable of making inner intention work through willpower but outer intention functions irrespective of the will of the rational mind. It does not follow orders and manifests freely when there is agreement between the heart and mind. In dreaming the rational mind has no direct control and does not even realize that outer intention is working. To some degree dreams continue after the dreamer has woken up and so at this point the mind can have more say in what happens.

In a dream the dreamer can be completely absorbed in the most ridiculous, meaningless games, unaware of their absurdity. The same can be true in real life. When a group of people involved in a very narrow specialized activity, be it professional, religious or special interest groups, they often come up with their own understanding of things, vocabulary and actions that to anyone outside the group would appear unnatural and even silly.

The mind's uncritical attitude to waking reality is what allows phenomena such as hypnotism and entrancement to work. Gypsy hypnosis, for example, is based on three "yes's'". A person answers yes to three separate questions which makes them feel that everything is going as it should. The person consequently becomes less vigilant and, in a sense, dozes off, their critical abilities being reduced to a minimum. People in this state are almost literally daydreaming automatically going about their daily affairs. This is particularly the case with individuals who have a strict daily regime.

When you talk to someone it is like you are in a deep sleep. Fully engaged in the game you naturally understand what is happening but your active participation makes you incapable of behaving or evaluating the situation objectively as an outside observer would. Any football fan who understands the game criticizes the players for their mistakes. What would happen though if that fan were to be brought onto the field to play? Would they do any better as a participant? Everyone acts unconsciously to a certain extent. When a person is lying their eyes tend to shift to the right. They make involuntary movements with their hands totally immersed in the game.

The state of hypnotic suggestion is an extreme case of daydreaming but everyone is to some extent asleep in their day to day physical reality. In this moment, as you read, you can shake yourself and say that you are aware of what you are doing and what is happening. Later, however, a person, event or problem will distract you and you will again get drawn into the game and doze off. You will remain sleeping all the while that you are on the stage and conscientiously playing your role. You will wake up when you come down into the auditorium and rouse your inner Guardian. Once in the auditorium you will continue to play your role, speak the necessary words, carry out the necessary actions following the established rules, only now you will play your role consciously, in a more detached manner assessing what is happening around you with a sober mind.

In non-lucid dreaming, the dream just 'happens'. Outer intention acts independently of your will and there is nothing you can do about it. In lucid dreaming a person steps down into the auditorium and consciously directs the script. It is not that outer intention deliberately aligns itself with a person's will, it just ceases to contradict it. In this case the mind gives the heart more freedom and in exchange receives its sanction. The unity of heart and mind in turn activates outer intention. In the forthcoming chapters we will describe how to work with outer intention on the path towards one's goal.

The level of conscious awareness is higher in waking than it is in dreaming and this is sufficient to direct inner intention. Outer intention requires an even higher level of conscious awareness. In lucid dreaming, as in waking reality in order to work with outer intention you have to wake up.

## The Game According to Your Rules

What can you do if you are attacked in a dream? There are four types of inner intention: flight, fight, awakening and realization. Opposition and retreat, in response to being attacked in a dream, are primitive forms of response generated by inner intention. If you are attacked in a dream and you fight back events will unfold in much the same way as they would in waking reality, i.e. in accordance with the standard model of behaviour. Your conscious mind already has a script for how the fight should end. If you are accustomed to losing, you will lose the fight and vice versa. Your dream will shift around the alternatives space in accordance with your script.

In a dream you tend to behave in the same way as you are used to behaving in waking reality, but because in a dream anything is possible, working with outer intention can be very effective. With the power of outer intention you can quietly turn to your opponent and imagine them retreating before finally turning into a frog. It is not that you yearn or strive for your opponent to turn into a frog for this would be to actively will a change on the outside world using the power of inner intention. When you work with outer intention you simply imagine that your opponent is turning into a frog. In other words, you accept that their turning into a frog is a potential reality. Outer intention only imagines an event to be true and accepts the possibility of a different script. If the mind can fully accept the idea that there can be an alternative to the usual development of events, the heart will not object. Union between the heart and mind activates outer intention which transforms the chosen script into physical reality.

As you can see, outer intention arises not as a result of will but as a consequence of harmony between the heart and mind. Outer intention acts independently of personal will and so inner intention (personal will) should only be directed towards achieving a harmonious connection between heart and mind. To successfully set outer intention you have to first acknowledge that the script can be controlled. Awareness is also essential if you want outer intention to work in your favour.

Whilst the dreamer is not lucid the dream cannot be controlled; it just 'happens'. In dreaming and in waking the majority of human actions are carried out relatively unconsciously. When a person's relationship to their surroundings is unconscious they experience a situation as something determined and conditioned by external factors which they have neither the strength nor the capacity to influence. If a person believes this to be true, other people and the vagaries of fate will have a greater impact on their life. In this sense, reality also just 'happens', the rules of the game being set not by the individual but by the outside world.

To gain control both in dreaming and in real life it is essential to switch from the role of immersed participant to the role of witness. You continue to take part and play your role in the game but your inner Guardian is always vigilant. It is as if you detach yourself, enough to be playing the part of an actor at the same time as observing your role and the theatricals of others from the auditorium. The Guardian is always switched on in the background. It does not get involved; it just follows carefully and soberly assessing all that it observes.

In non-lucid dreaming it is as if the observer has switched off leaving the actor alone to get involved. In this state the individual becomes totally absorbed in their role unable to see the situation from the outside. To avoid getting completely absorbed in a role the intensity of inner importance and the projection of outer importance must be kept to a minimum and the Guardian must be always ready. Even without taking outer intention into account, a person's ability to control a situation is directly proportionate to their level of conscious awareness. In dreaming the level of awareness is minor and so the dream 'happens'. If however, a person is aware that they are dreaming the situation is under control and they can do whatever they wish.

Susceptibility to the influence of other people and destructive pendulums is in inverse proportionality to a person's level of conscious awareness. In sleep many people behave like zombies. If they are being chased in a nightmare they run away unable to do anything else about it. The script belongs to the individual but it has been given over to a different producer for staging. The individual is prisoner of their own conditioned perceptions of how an event may develop. Despite the fact that the perceptions originate with the individual they dictate their own will reducing their owner to the position of victim.

Remember what happens when you become totally immersed in a problem. Imagine, for example, that you are approached by a colleague who announces that some job has to be done. If doing the job is a problem your first response would probably be concern, perhaps a feeling of dejection. You would then run various scenarios around in your mind for events might develop: "That's not going to be an easy task. How will I do it? I so do not want to! My life is so difficult and stressful but if I do not do it such and such will happen, etc." At this stage you have joined in the game, becoming susceptible to outside influence; in other words you have dozed off. You can now be taken by the hand and lead like an obedient child into a room where difficult, exacting work awaits you, ending up on a life line where this is exactly what happens.

This is what happens if you allow the pendulum to hypnotise you and make its own game your problem. By turning the problematic script round in your conscious mind you reach a point where the heart and mind are in agreement over their concern, at which point outer intention immediately shifts you onto a problematic life line. This can happen quite easily as feelings such as fear, despair, dissatisfaction and worry can take hold of a person quite quickly. The underlying cause is of course, importance, both inner and outer. You can be pulled into the game or lulled into a slumber whenever you assess the game to be important either of itself or for you personally.

Now imagine a different version of events. A person comes up to you with a problem. In this moment you shake yourself and tell yourself that you are not sleeping and can decide whether the first prod of the pendulum will become a problem for you or not. This is the first condition to establishing control over the situation. The second condition is to take it into your head to defeat the pendulum. Even before you learn the nature of the problem, program yourself to perceive whatever it is as a mere trifle. The most important thing is not to allow yourself to be lead by the hand. Do not take any assertive steps, refuse to get involved, prevaricate or become irritated. Simply listen to what the person wants from you. Externally it is best to nod your head, make the right noises and internally remain the witness, not the participant. This is the role of the observer who takes part, like a trainer who sometimes plays as well.

To be detached in this case does not mean to be distracted or lacking in concentration. Quite the opposite; control over a situation presupposes attentiveness and total clarity of mind. To stand back from something means to be aware of the fact that you make up the rules of the game deciding whether the play will turn either into a tragedy or a comic sketch or light vaudeville. It depends on what you want which is probably for everything to be resolved quickly and easily. If you fear that there will always be complex problems just around the corner to be wrestled with for ages, do not worry. There is always a simply solution to any complex problem. The simple solution lies on the 'vaudeville' life line. To shift to this life line all that is required is the intention to imagine to yourself that it is so.

Once you start practicing this technique you will be pleasantly surprised. The outcome may be most improbable. At the very least the problem will be solved easily, or it may disappear or given to someone else to resolve. There simply are no complex problems on the 'vaudeville' life line. You do not have total power over outer intention but you can act in such a way that firstly, it does not act against you and secondly, that you get the opportunity to help it work in your interests. Circumstances may unfold in various ways and not necessarily in your favour but by taking this position you significantly increase your chances of coming up roses. Do not forget to trust the alternatives flow as well. If the level of unity between heart and mind in the vaudeville attitude to the problem is sufficiently high you will receive mind boggling results that you could only have dreamed of.

You are no longer a puppet on a string. I should warn you though to be careful of the temptation of considering yourself the puppeteer. You understand that this would disturb the balance and you would instantly receive a slap at the first sign of any conceit, feeling of superiority, contempt or (heaven forbid) disdain towards others. No individual can ever have complete control over all that happens in life even in dreaming. Remember, you only have the right to choose, not to change. Make yourself at home but do not forget you are a guest. It is also important to remember that when you detach yourself from a situation it is essential to act with complete integrity. A 'vaudeville' attitude to a problem does not suggest being slack or nonchalant but it does mean being capable of soberly assessing the importance of things.

It would be a mistake to interpret conscious awareness as the striving to establish control over the surrounding world. The rational mind is accustomed to insisting on its own view of things, trying to alter the course of events, and fighting against the current. Sometimes, when a person steps off the stage into the auditorium they are seduced by the desire to change the script by force, imposing their will on the remaining actors. This type of behaviour has nothing in common with Transurfing because it depends exclusively on personal will (inner intention) to push against the current. You have to remind yourself again and again of the need to go with the flow. Conscious awareness lies in observation, not in the ability to control. Control should only be directed towards imagining an auspicious script, allowing it into your life and embracing it with all your heart, instead of floundering about in negativity. It is not about forcing your own script on the world so much as considering it possible, allowing an alternative to be realized and allowing yourself to receive it. You will only succeed in ceasing to do battle with the world and allowing yourself to choose if the heart and mind are one.

In the previous chapter we looked at different models of behaviour and the roles of the beggar, the indignant and the fighter, neither of which fit the context of the Transurfing model. So what role could be worthy of the one who is master of their own fate in this game called Life? By now you have probably guessed that in the Transurfing model it is considered to be the Guardian. The more conscious awareness you have in waking, the more effectively you will be able to take charge of your own destiny.

The role of the Guardian is much more engaging than the role of the administrator. Captains, managers and other leaders tend to take a more proactive position in life than simple administrators and not only because they have greater responsibilities. Senior management personnel are more likely to adopt the role of guardian because their position requires them to be 'more awake' in comparison to other workers, who are able to remain asleep fulfilling their responsibilities simply because they have to. As soon as you embrace the position of Guardian you will feel a burst of energy and increased levels of vitality because now, rather than dejectedly carrying out actions that are the will of another, you are creating your own destiny. Taking responsibility for your own fate is not a burden, but an act of freedom.

Man differs from animals not so much in level of intellect as in level of awareness. Animals embody a sleepier state. Their behaviour is mainly determined by stereotypical scripts, instilled in them by nature, and which manifest in the form of instinct and reflexes. Animal behaviour is like that of an actor in a play with a fixed script. In this sense, human beings are 'more awake'. Man is by nature more inclined to self awareness and understanding of their place in the world. At the same time, the general level of human awareness is still very limited with most people too completely immersed in the script to have the necessary detachment for awareness.

The secret of so-called clever people lies in their awareness. Awareness gives clarity of mind. Some people are able to think and express their thoughts clearly whilst others are muddled. The relative sharpness or dullness of one's mind depends more on awareness than it does on intellect. Choosing simplicity of mind can also be means of protection from unwanted information: "I don't want to know. Leave me alone!", in contrast to an astute mind that embodies openness, curiosity and the desire to receive and process information in the spirit of: "I want to know everything!" Obtuseness is sometimes a result of retardation and both these traits can be developed in childhood, for example, when a child is forced to learn or psychologically manipulated.

The more we daydream in everyday life, the more mistakes we make. The fly that beats itself against the window pane is also deeply asleep. When you are totally immersed in the script you are not able to take a wider, more objective view of reality. Obsession with the game narrows perception and puts up a barrier. People are surprised when they realize they have made a mistake because they were so immersed in something to see more clearly, and ask themselves: "Where was I looking?" as if they had been seduced by some apparition. Even on April Fool's Day when people know they may have tricks played on them, they still fall into the trap. What is this if not a daydream?

Lack of awareness is the result of not wanting to look reality in the eye. The ostrich hides its head in the sand to escape the threat of reality. When people have their head in the sand it reflects the desire to insulate themselves from the outside world in the sense of: "I cannot see anything, I can't hear anything, I don't want anything. Leave me alone!" It is not possible in life to totally pull your head under the blanket and sleep and so people try to dull their powers of perception. Unfortunately this compromises their awareness. For example, a mild, harmless person may try to hide from the imminent threat of aggression but they will not be able to dodge the blow because their awareness is blocked by fear. Their reactions are dulled as if their eyes were covered in a film. Rage also dims understanding. When a person is immersed in the game they are incapable of seeing or hearing anything else around them, hence the phrase 'blind rage'.

Fear and anger are extreme examples of the absence of awareness. Pendulums will also try to gently dull your vigilance with a zombifying effect, playing on the fact that most people spend the majority of their time in a semi-aware state, only experiencing acute awareness and clarity of perception when the right circumstances give them an adrenalin rush. This is why it is so difficult to do something as seemingly simple as wake up in a dream and say: "Hey! You! Stop messing me about. It is just a dream and what's more, it's my dream, so I say what goes, not you."

Intuitive knowledge can be drawn from the subconscious by the power of awareness. Intuitive knowledge can be more easily perceived if you can catch yourself thinking: "Why do I suddenly want to do this?" The soul's reply will be soft and barely audible. The rational mind however will shout: "Shut up. I know very well what I want and what I should be doing!" You have to develop the habit of constantly listening for the rustle of the morning stars to hear the music of intuition. In a semi-conscious state it is almost impossible to remember quickly enough to note what your inner voice is trying to say. Even if early in the morning you set yourself the strict task of listening to the voice of your soul you will not remember to do so at the appropriate moment if you sink into the daydream.

So, harmony between heart and mind generates outer intention, and mindfulness enables you to have it work in your favour. Unity of heart and mind is so easily achieved in dreams for the simple reason that in dreams, the heart is free of the authoritative control of the mind. In lucid dreaming there is still an element of control but it is limited to adjusting the script. In dreams the mind will accept all manner of miraculous event. In 'The Tinderbox' a fairytale by Hans Christian Anderson, there is a scene in which the princess, convinced that she is dreaming, agrees to walk on the roof with the soldier. In dreams the rational mind will accept anything, but in waking reality it fitfully grabs hold of its familiar worldview.

It is not easy to achieve a state of harmony between heart and mind once you step beyond the realms of common sense. Common sense is like a lifetime cell, from which is difficult to escape. A person may be interested in mystical teachings, have their head in the clouds and believe in the impossible but there will always be place for doubt. The mind will go along with things but at the end of the day, it knows that apples really fall to the ground. This is why it is so difficult to completely align outer intention with your own will. Nonetheless, personal experience will show that mindfulness greatly increases your chances.

Maximum awareness can be achieved as long as the inner Guardian is constantly present in your consciousness. The Guardian objectively evaluates what is happening and assesses in whose interests the game is being played. It makes sure that you will not get drawn into the game like a puppet. You have to remember to ask yourself every minute of the day: "Are you asleep or not?" so that it becomes an attitude. You can also practice lucid dreaming if you are unafraid to do so but the dream will come to an end and everyday reality will return. Surely it makes more sense to focus on developing conscious awareness and mindfulness in your everyday life. As you can now see, this alternative gives you the chance to furnish your life layer according to your own taste. It is your choice.

## The Purification of Intention

Outer intention is a huge, unfathomable force. At the same time you can see how fluid and subtle it is. It is control and at the same time, the renunciation of control. It is the decision to have at the same time as the abandonment of the need to achieve. It is something unfamiliar to the mind. We are used to securing what we desire by setting an inner intention. We are used to thinking that if we have the right direct impact on the world it will respond immediately. The idea of inner intention is clear and straight forward. Even so, things do not always come that easily. You still have to make an effort, insist on your goals, struggle for what you want and fight your way forward. The method of Transurfing suggests that if you let go of launching an advance the world will offer its embrace. Obviously, such an unconventional approach is bound to leave the rational mind confused.

How can you achieve a state of balance in which you combine the decision to have with the abandonment of direct action? The answer is obvious. You have to maintain balanced intention, which means to want without desiring, to take care without worrying, to strive without being distracted and to act without demanding. Balance is destroyed by the excess potential of projected importance. As you already know, the more important the goal the harder it becomes to reach.

The saying "if you really want something you will eventually get it" will have quite the opposite effect if the wanting is intensely driven and frantic attempts are made to acquire the object of your desire. Frantic actions are taken only when a person does not really believe that their wish will come true. Compare these two positions. This is the first: "I really want to achieve what I desire. For me personally it is a matter of life and death. Whatever happens I have to have it. I will do everything I possibly can to make sure I get it." This is the second: "I have decided that I will get what I desire. I want it. What's the problem? It will be mine, full-stop." It is clear which position will be successful.

Desire also differs from intention in that it includes the possibility of nonfulfillment. If something we desire is difficult to obtain it makes us want it even more. Desire always creates excess potential. Desire is potential by definition. Desire is when somewhere, something is absent but thought energy is aimed at attracting that something to make is present. Intention neither believes nor desires; it simply does.

Pure intention never creates excess potential. Pure intention assumes that everything is already in the bag. You simply decide that it will be so. It is like an almost accomplished fact. It is the calm realization that something will come into being. For example, I intend to go to the newsagents and buy a paper. There is no desire in this. Desire was present up until the moment I decided to buy a paper. The chances of nonfulfillment are extremely low and if I fail it is not the end of the world. In this case intention is free of desire and, consequently, of excess potential too.

The thought energy of desire is focused on the goal. The energy of intention is focused on the process of its being achieved. When a person wants something they create perturbance in the energetic picture of the immediate environment which bring about the impact of balanced forces. When a person simply walks to the newsagents to get a paper no heterogeneity in the energy field is created.

Within the context of a life line this is what desire looks like: I want it but am afraid I cannot actually have it and so I think of failure (because it is important to me!) and radiate energy at the vibrational frequency of a failure ridden life line. Here outer intention has the opposite effect: I know that I will have what I claim. It is already decided and so I radiate energy at the frequency of a life line where I have what I want.

So, achieving the goal is inhibited by two types of excess potential: desire and belief, or rather, the passionate desire whatever the cost to achieve the goal and the battle with one's doubts concerning the possibility of achieving it. The more strongly the goal is desired, the weightier one's doubts over a successful outcome become. Doubt in turn makes the thing we desire appear more valuable. We have already established that desire, rather than helping, just makes things harder. The secret to fulfilling one's desires lies in the understanding that desire must be replaced by intention, total resoluteness in the decision to have and act.

The importance one attaches to the goal makes one determined to follow through, continuing to impact the outside world with the strength of one's inner intention. When the mind sets an intention it launches headlong into battle. It is the feeling of importance that creates the mental habit of trying to put pressure on the outside world. You will not get a single step closer to working with outer intention unless you reduce the level of importance and emotional intensity you associate with your goals. Outer intention is totally different to inner intention in that it has no striving to impact the outside world.

You will never learn to work with outer intention by setting an inner intention to do so, however strong it is. The force is referred to as outer intention precisely because it lies outside of yourself. So just what exactly is outer intention? I confess I have no idea and I am not afraid to say so. It is extremely difficult to talk about intention within the limited context of reference familiar to the rational mind, and yet we can bear witness to certain aspects of it. For example, outer intention emerges in moments when there is harmonious connection between the heart and mind. As soon as this condition is fulfilled a kind of resonance is created between thought energy and the outer power of intention that picks us up and carries us into the corresponding sector of the alternatives space.

Outer intention is the force that makes Transurfing possible, i.e. switching life lines, or in other words, moving the point of material realization through sectors of the alternatives space. To ask why this force exists and wherefrom it originates would be as futile as asking why God exists or wondering whether there is a connection between God and outer intention. No-one can know these things. The main thing is that this force exists and all that remains is to take joy in the fact of using it, just as we take joy in the sunshine.

Outer intention makes it possible to shift the point of material realization from one sector to another in the alternatives space. It is the same principle as the force of gravity that indicates the possibility of falling from the roof of a building. Nothing happens whilst you are standing on the roof but as soon as you take a step off the edge and give yourself up to gravity, it will grab hold of you and throw you to the ground.

To give yourself up to outer intention you have to achieve unity of heart and mind. This can only be done if the intensity of importance is absent. Importance gives rise to doubt which stands as an obstacle on the path to unity. When there is doubt the rational mind desires something and the heart resists or the heart strives towards something but the mind suppresses the urge. Importance beats the mind against a window pane whilst the heart sees the open window. The heart asks for what it truly wants but importance has the mind trapped in a web of common sense which says no. Finally, unity may be reached but usually the agreement is over the non-acceptance of something, as a result of which, outer intention goes out of its way to fob you off with something you do not need or want. Lack of harmony between the motives of the heart and mind is conditioned by the fact that the mind is under the power of preconceptions and false ideas referred to here as pendulums, and as we know, pendulums pull us by the strings of projected importance.

This leads us on to the second condition to using outer intention: reducing the intensity of importance and abandoning attachment to achieving one's goal. It sounds paradoxical of course that in order to achieve your goal you have to abandon the desire to achieve it. We understand all aspects of how inner intention works because we are so used to functioning exclusively within these narrow confines. We have defined intention as resoluteness in the decision to have and act. The difference between inner and outer intention lies in the first and second parts of the definition. If inner intention is the decision to act, outer intention is closer to the decision to have. In the first case you decide to fall, so you run until you drop. In the second case you want to be on the ground so you let go of control and give yourself up to the force of gravity.

The thought pattern described below will help you to cleanse your intention of desire: to start with you consider the goal you want to achieve. As soon as doubts enter your head you know you have desire. If you start worrying about whether you have the necessary qualities and skills to achieve the goal it means you have desire. Even if you believe that you can and will achieve your goal, desire can still be present. You have to want and act without fuelling the emotion of desire. The intention to lift your hand up and scratch the back of you head is an example of intention free of excess potential. There should be the pure intention to act, not the desire to act. This requires reducing the levels of inner and outer importance you associate with the goal. There is a very simply way of reducing importance which is to come to terms with the possibility of defeat at the very beginning. Unless you accept the possibility of defeat you will not eliminate desire.

Make sure than in the process of purifying intention of desire that you do not lose a grip on the intention itself. Set the intention to achieve your goal and start by accepting the possibility that you may fail. Run the scenario of defeat round in your mind a few times and consider what you would do if that happened; what might serve as a plan B or safety net. Invite the realization into your mind, that not achieving the goal would not be the end of the world.

Imagining the scenario of defeat should be a one-time event. There is no point in constantly returning to the scene of failure in your mind. The exercise is only intended to free you from the need of achieving the goal exactly as you had imagined. You cannot know how the goal with will achieved, but we will return to this point later. Once you have consciously accepted the possibility of failure do not think about failure or success, just move in the direction of your goal and set off just as you would if you were going to the newsagents to buy a paper. Success will be in the bag, and if for some reason it is not, then there is no cause for sorrow or regret. If you do not succeed the first time, you will succeed the next as long as you do not tear yourself apart over the initial failure.

Finally, letting go into outer intention does not necessarily mean completely rejecting your personal intentions, sitting at home with your arms folded waiting for harmony between heart and mind to magically appear. No-one is stopping you from achieving your goals in the usual way. Eliminating desire and importance has the same beneficial effect when applied to inner intention. It is just that now, the powerful force of outer intention can also work in your favour helping you achieve things you previously thought impossible.

## SUMMARY

In conscious dreaming the mind controls the game script.

Dreaming is the virtual journey of the soul through the alternatives space.

Dreams should not be interpreted as signs.

The soul will not necessarily return if it flies into a realized sector of the alternatives space.

It is not desire that is realized but intention, i.e. the resoluteness to have and to act.

Desire is the concentration of attention on the goal.

Inner intention is the concentration of attention on the process of moving in the direction of the goal.

Outer intention is the concentration of attention on how the goal realizes itself.

The goal is achieved by inner intention and by outer intention simply chosen.

Inner intention strives to impact the outside world directly.

Outer intention gives the green light for the autonomous realization of the goal.

The laws of natural science only work in one given sector of the alternatives space.

Outer intention works by moving through different sectors of the space.

Outer intention is the unity of heart and mind.

Imagination takes part in dreaming only to the extent that generates the initial idea.

The heart and mind are united in negative expectation, which is why they are easily realized.

In reality a dream continues in waking to some degree or another.

If you want to exercise control over outer intention you have to wake up.

Whilst you live without conscious awareness, reality cannot be controlled, it just 'happens'.

Any game must be played with an element of detachment like a participating observer.

Awareness is achieved by being detached from the game.

Detachment presupposes vigilance and complete mental clarity.

Conscious awareness is not so much about control as observation.

Control should be exercised only to the extent that it allows desired scripts into your life.

In order to choose the necessary script you have to imagine that it will be exactly as you desire it.

Inner intention is resoluteness in the decision to act.

Outer intention is resoluteness in the decision to have.

Outer intention is the power that makes Transurfing possible.

In order to reduce the importance associated with the goal the possibility of failure must be accepted at the outset.

Once you have accepted the possibility of failure, do not think, just move in the direction of your goal.
